Good morning everyone.
Morning, sir. Uh, everything good?
Yeah, good morning. Happy new, happy New Year
to everyone, sir.
Sorry. Weekend
On this, like pretty, like fairly new morning.
Uh, new year actually. Thank you, sir.
Okay. Anyways, okay,
So, uh, today's topic will be, uh, you know, uh,
diving into one of the factors that is the regression.
So two aspects of the regression.
I'll be actually diving that is the largest regression
and nearly linear regression.
And I know as a matter of fact,
you guys are already familiar with one of the things,
like both of the things during your past,
uh, semester data science lab.
So in this one, what I thought of like, uh, giving you one,
uh, like a live demonstration with a Python scripts
and all, how we can like, uh, build our own, you know,
AI model like, uh, or ML models with the linear regression
and logistic regression.
So, uh, step by step I'll be showing you, uh, like how
to actually import the data, how to actually, uh, you know,
sub select the data, purify the data,
and then apply the algorithms, also evaluate the algorithms
and all that.
I will be actually showing you
Today, okay?
Sure.
So I hope my screen is visible. Oh, just
A second. I think
so now it is not visible, sir. Okay. Okay.
Just a second. Let me rejoin.
Yeah,
Sorry, I had a problem with my system.
Uh, lemme check. Yeah, I hope it is visible, right?
Yeah. Yes, yes, sir. Okay, so
The, uh, like, uh, ideas, I'll be using the Google collab,
so I hope you are already familiar with the like, uh,
this ID along with like Jupyter Notebook, sir.
So, two, yes, I think mostly we focus for the,
like a development of AI models.
Uh, if you're having good system GPUs and everything,
and if you like to, you know, uh, like, uh, do, uh,
like a own set up, like a configuration
and all with a powerful system, then Jupyter Notebook is,
or Anaconda whole system environment is way to go, I think.
And if you are into something where your system is not much
that powerful, you don't want to do the configuration part
and all those things, this, uh, Google, uh,
Google collab works so phenomenal.
That is a thing. Okay, so, uh, today,
let's just do the thing that I'll be going.
So I'll create a new notebook, okay?
Okay, let's just, okay, for, uh,
dataset, I'm using one thing that is
tightening dataset, okay?
If you search, that is Titan, Nick, CSV.
If you Google Titan, CSV,
either you can go on the GitHub page
or this, uh, you know, Kegel
or multiple other that is there.
So I'm going into GitHub,
and from there, this three button, uh, like, uh,
this three button icon, like
from there you can just download this, you know, file.
Let's just go and do this. Okay? So I'll repeat once again.
Uh, you search the Titan CSB five for the dataset, okay?
Uh, you go to the data link on this side, more file actions.
That is the icon that see on the right hand side,
you click on that one and you can click on the downloads
for downloading the file, right?
So once you download this one, okay,
it'll sit somewhere in your download folder.
Okay? So I have this data set file,
Titanic one CSV, I'll just show, okay?
Now, once you download this one, you have to do one thing
that is upload the data into, uh,
Google collab to use this one.
If you're having, uh, like a basic, uh,
no Google Jupyter notebook
and all, you can directly give them the path
and it can directly work.
But, uh, because this Google Cloud runs in the cloud,
so you have to upload the dataset in the cloud in order
to like, uh, you know, read the data sets and all.
So here I'll be doing like a, in this one, uh,
you click on this hamburger menu.
Uh, you can go to this folder icon,
and there there's upload icon.
Is there, okay, I'll repeat in the hamburger menu.
If you click okay, then the folder icon
and there is the upload icon, you click on that one,
it will prompt it with a window there,
you can upload the file.
So I have previously done the Titan CSV file,
so I'll upload this one.
Okay, so some warning is there, that is fine.
Now the file has been uploaded, so I'll do what?
I'll read the file. Okay, so for this one, I'll use
the Pandas library.
So I'm writing the script here, WS PD D. Okay.
And I'm reading the data in a data frame
that is a variable, variable.
I'm creating df PDed read,
CSV, okay?
And then the file name.
So I have eight AIC
csv slash okay, do says present folder within
that the Titanic csv folder, uh, file, it'll search, okay,
if I run this with the, uh, like a control enter
or command enter or Mac, uh, so
if you see this right tick, that means it is working.
Okay? That is the idea.
Now, the data has like already, you know, loaded.
Let's just see with the D dot head, what are the like, uh,
you know, contents of the file that is there.
So if I execute d do head, I have the first five, you know,
uh, rules that has been like, uh, given as an output.
So these are the columns I'm having passengers Id survived,
uh, uh, B class name six H uh, SYP, posh.
So multiple data information you are getting.
So what kinda data also dealing with, along with that one,
you can run this command also D info.
So this info, uh, describe, uh,
then there's the other factors that they said.
These kind of things. We try to inspect the data,
how these are actually, uh, what kind
of data we are dealing with basically fine.
So d info, basically whos you, what kind
of columns you're dealing with, right?
So basically
whenever you are applying any machine learning,
deep learning, AI, algorithms, uh,
the dataset you're providing,
the dataset should be always numeric value, okay?
If it is non-numeric value, if you are trying to suppose,
uh, add to, you know, names or something,
or multiply something, the characters
and all, it'll give you a,
there is a basic fundamental idea.
So you have to, you know, see the,
which are the like data set you are using.
You're not actually giving input as a string or character.
You have to have numerical values.
So in this one, you see all
of the data are mostly in 64, okay?
Some float 64, but some of them are objects, okay?
Now you have to check whether these objects are like useful
for you or you can like, uh, discard those and all.
Okay? So basic idea first all be actually going further,
dropping off the few of the columns, fine.
So if you see the dataset, uh, that is the, uh,
passenger id, okay, that is not needed.
P class might be useful, name is not needed.
Whenever I'm going for any, uh, model training
and all, uh, so let's just make it like very simple.
I'll first give you one example, then you can go ahead
and like, uh, do like a multi, you know, uh, dataset, uh,
like a multiple columns and apply the algorithms and all.
So let's just divide X and y actually do one thing,
Okay?
So I'll create one section
where I'll be keeping, okay?
Uh huh. So like one by one, I'll give you one actually.
What are the things you need to do in order
to apply any kinda algorithm?
Fine. So notes.
So first you need to load the data.
Fine, once you load the data, you inspect the data,
what kind of data set you're dealing with.
So you can go for the like, uh, various, uh, you know, uh,
just head, uh, info.
Describe these kind of functions once
you're done with that one.
Now you need to do one is that is the, you need
to check NN values
whether your data set is having some blank values
or n values, NN values.
Suppose, uh, in Excel sheet, I'm like, uh, giving inputs
as a data, okay?
And few of the days or entries I have missed.
So I have kept that as a blank.
And finally, I'm sending you the whole Excel sheet.
There are some blank values, so those are known
as NN values, fine.
So for checking that in your, you know, code, you need
to apply this one.
D is na.
So we are checking, is there any NN values are there
dot n So basically it will show you column wise,
if there is any NN values, fine, let go this one.
So you can check this NN values, once we are checking, uh,
the synchronous how to apply the load the data,
check the data, check the NN values.
So in this NN values passenger ID is having false.
So no NN values are there.
Survival ID is also having false P class, false name false.
But in this age, that is true, Kevin,
there is true embark that is true.
So few of the columns where,
or the features where NN values are present, okay?
Also, if you see the D head, okay,
there you can see this, you know, cabin
NNNN is there.
So there are blank values. Something is there.
So if you actually give this data
and try to train the model with this NN values,
it'll give you where it, so we have to first deal
with the NN values, okay?
So the first idea you should be having,
if your data set is like huge,
Okay? To
directly discard the end values.
I repeat if your data set is huge in number
to directly discard the values, okay?
The rules which are having end values.
If you're not having like a, uh, enough set of data,
then you go for the, like, backfield for field
or even predicting from the existing columns
to actually in like, uh, replace the NN values
with some predicted values.
These kind of operations we do.
So, uh, for making it simple, let's just go with the,
like some, uh, like just dropping of this columns fine.
So After this checking this,
NN like you can directly do df is called to df
Drop na.
So this is basically for dropping your columns.
Uh, then, uh,
If I write this one, okay, df, physical to df drop na.
So it is basically execute. And
If you Go
and df, if you check this one, right,
the NN values will be not there, fine.
Now, the DF data has been, uh,
the n values has been discarded the rules basically.
Now, if I, again, check df.is in a
Any, Again, I'm checking whether there's any
n values are laptop of the dropping off N,
Right? So currently
if you see I have rectified the N values,
Okay? Now n values
are not there. Now I can go for my next step.
So NN values are like already removed,
Okay?
Now I'll be dissecting the data sets into
dependent variable and independent variable.
The analysis part that I want to do,
or you can go in this one visualization part as well.
So let's just go with the no,
Divide the data into
independent and
independent variable.
Fine.
So suppose, uh, in the initial stage,
I'll be applying the linear regression point
in the linear regression.
I want to actually predict, uh, based on the age,
Okay? If
Your age is something, if you're giving cancer input,
what is the chance that you have survived in this dataset?
Okay? The survived is one, is
that means the person is survived, has survived.
Zero means the person didn't survive, okay?
In this titan dataset, the Titanic, uh, ships, uh,
passengers details are there.
If one is there, that means the passenger did survive
and zero that means passenger didn't survive
based on that age factor.
We are cross checking. If your age is something like, uh,
supposed 30, 40, 50, anything, okay, what is the likelihood
that you'll survive on you or not?
Okay? That is the actually, uh, you know, model.
I want to create the linear regression model based on age.
I'm checking whether the people has survived or not.
So I will do one thing that is divide this data into X
and y, depending independent in the,
You know, Independent dependent variable.
I'm doing this df
H So I'm basically taking the H and in the X I'm taking
C
fine.
So once I compile it, I have two variables.
I have y
Head y capital because
These are, Okay, so I have in the y that is the age
based on some age, I want
to predict whether the people has survived or not.
And in this y go my head,
Okay? So
it is saying the Survive. So up
Till this point, this is fine.
Okay? Now,
after division, another thing you need to do that is the,
you know, whenever you are actually applying some, uh,
evolution methods, R squared
or something, MSC, you might get a like huge value
because these are some hub
squared data, something like that.
So to get a like idea, like in which, you know, value,
I'm dealing with the, the problems and all, we basically go
and apply the minimax color.
That is also minimizes the, you know, uh,
The, You Know,
uh, The biases towards the data.
Okay? So we apply some kind of scaler or scaling
Of the data. So this
Is the fifth stage that I usually do.
The, on the fifth stage we do the scaling.
So because this x data that is survived,
the minimum value is zero, maximum value is one.
There is no like a need of applying of any kinda,
you know, mean muscular.
But in this case, y you see there are ranges. Okay?
Four is there, so 54 is 35, 58.
So ranges there, it is not between zero to one.
So basically you can apply
because it is one to one, you might get away.
But, uh, for like understanding the evolution metrics,
we generally apply this one
for applying the mini minimax scale that I usually go for.
Uh, I'll be importing one of the algorithm,
Right? A scale learned
dot reprocessing
Processing import
mini max scaler,
Okay?
Okay. Once you import the inax scaler,
you will create an object of minax scaler scaler.
Then basically you'll apply the minax scaler into the data.
Why is it going to, why scale?
Suppose, okay, why scale is goal to
scaler.fit and transform.
Okay? Why do values did reshape?
So this is basically converting in 1D RA into 2D RA. Okay?
X scale is not required. Fine.
Oh, sorry, why? Huh? Y isn't required. X is not required.
Now, if I apply this one
and also do this y scaled,
okay,
now you see after applying this one, the previous value used
to be, uh, this thing 38, uh, 35, 54.
Now the value has become, the range is between zero to one.
The minimum value becomes zero,
the maximum value becomes one.
Now, the values will be within the range of that one.
There's the minax scaler that we use.
I'll be going further splitting of the data.
That is the training and testing, right?
Sir, what is the minus one in reshape?
Sorry. So the minus one in reshape you did
Minus one is basic.
Uh, minus one is basically, uh, you, uh, actually, uh,
this one, uh, you are converting the 1D RN two DR
for this one we use this minus one comma one,
or you can use this one dot two three.
You can also use this one right
Focus.
Now, I'll use this one
from my scale learn dot.
Uh, which one?
Uh, I need to do this, uh, data division into X and y.
That is the scale model selection,
import trend test split.
Okay? So
after the scaling of the data, then you do what you do.
That is the, uh, divide
the data into
print test split.
So, you know, always
whenever you're applying the algorithm,
first you divide the data into, uh, two
or three parts, two parts as in extreme, that is the data,
um, will be using for the model training.
Then white, uh, white range, that is the model for the,
you know, betterment of the model.
Then we will be having lip two data, the, uh,
expressed and white test.
These are data to use that the model hasn't seen the data,
and it'll be checked to, uh, like
how the performance has been done.
So I will give you one demonstration on that one.
So what is happening is,
Suppose you are Having the X and Y data currently.
Now you divide the X into each two data, X train
And X test,
And you also divide the Y data into wide train
Y test.
Now, this extreme
and wide train data, I be showing to the model
and it'll know,
Uh, The what is the input
and what is the expected output output.
So it'll try to predict and try to learn from that one.
Now, this X test
and white test data, these two model hasn't seen this one.
Now, once the model is trained, I'll use this x test data
to actually predict one data that is the y predict.
So the prediction will be done from the model,
and I will compare this why predict with the wide taste.
So this is the, you know, your calculated output,
and this will be why taste will be your actual output if
there is any difference.
So that will be the error
that we check basically with this one.
So that is the, you know, requirement
of this strain test plate.
I hope it is clear, right?
Okay, so
You can use this one s scale learn model selection train
test plate for this training
and, uh, like a splitting of the data.
So in this one, I have, uh, divided the data extreme, uh,
extracted wide y train, y test, tender split, uh,
this, you know, function.
Now I have given the X and Y scale dataset, obviously,
and test size is 0.2.
What does it mean? 0.2 means 20% data will be reserved
for the testing purpose and 80% will go for the training.
So whatever the data,
suppose you are having thousand, you know, rows of data.
So 800 datas will be going to the extreme
and white train train
and 20% data that will be extracted and white test.
So you can change this to like any value 0.1.
You can take 0.3, you can take based upon your, you
Know, Uh, like, uh, you know, data set
and your practices generally 0.2 is a, like a good value.
So 20% data is reserved for your testing.
80% of the data is reserved for training.
That is the thing we are going with
Here.
So once you execute it, now the data set, now I have
to write two, three lines to actually build the algorithms
and test the algorithms.
How do we do it? We do it just like this from a scale learn,
Uh, Not linear model.
So it is already there, linear model,
import linear regression.
So that is the first line that is the library I'm importing
where the, you know, function is written.
Then you are creating one OB object
that is a model you could linear regression, okay?
Now there's a third line model, do fit.
Then you are giving the data extreme values reset. Okay?
So two frame also you can do and wide train.
So this data is already reset previously, uh,
due to the scaling function.
We don't need to, uh, like reset this one.
Now, if I do this, execute this one.
So the model has been prepared, the model is done.
Let's just, uh, write this one
model,
Okay, fine. Uh,
excuse me, sir, I have one doubt, sir.
Sir, in this reshape, uh, we put minus one to one, right?
So that part alone,
if you can help explain, will be helpful, sir. Okay?
Uh, so this linear regression model in the S scale learn
it is, has been written in such a way
it actually takes the input
as a two dimensional area instead of one dimensional area.
Okay? Now, I'll give you the example.
If you actually try to train
that model without actually doing the, you know, conversion
of this, uh mm-hmm one dimensional array
to two dimensional array, this happens,
we'll basically get an error
expected two dimensional container,
but got instead a data from contending single row.
Okay? Okay.
So for that one, we do the reshaping
before training the mal linear regression modeler.
Most, uh, actually models that we are having currently.
Now this wide train model is a subsidiary of this one.
This, you know, minimax scaler, we have applied
and we have already reset the Y, but we haven't reset
The X here Before applying.
So we are applying the reshaped here,
Okay? Okay.
Now, if you reset this one
and apply the model model, we successfully run that is the,
you know, one of the problem this psych learn is having,
and this is like a know work around we apply
to actually solve the issue,
Okay? Okay?
Now the model is trained and everything is done,
Sir. Uh, this
step of, uh, the step of extreme, uh, reshape
that we are doing for x extreme, right?
Yeah. Why can't we do it when we are doing
for also at the same time, sir, is there any specific thing?
Yeah, you can do it. I didn't actually, you know,
applied this scaling.
Okay, the, Uh, x, because X range is what?
X range is zero and one itself, correct?
Correct. Okay. Okay, got it. Got it.
And minimax color, we are applying
to actually divide the value between zero to one itself.
So X is not needed here,
Correct? I didn't
actually, uh, um, apply this scaling, uh,
transformation for the X wherever you can, like if you want
to apply re transformation, you can do, you can basically
whenever you actually going for this XY split here,
then you can directly also go for the,
this reshape here also.
So you don't need to bother in the future.
Correct? Got it. Okay. Sir,
Anywhere you do before the
model training, you have to perform.
That is the idea.
So one question, sir. So this reshape is only always
with minus one and one or, uh, why can't it be zero to one?
Sir, that is my question,
because logistic regression we have minus one to one,
but in case of linear regression, it is always in the past.
No, the re reshape as in like the dimension,
you are having this one row dimension, one dimensional data,
you actually divided into two dimensional data.
The input data that you are providing, that data,
you are converting into like, uh, the, this way, uh, instead
of like one dimensional input,
you're providing two dimensional input for the secret level.
Okay? Okay.
So, uh, so here, so it is one variable only,
no independent variable.
In case we have more than one in independent variable,
then we don't need to do resha, right?
Mm. It is better to do if it is asking, sometimes I,
I feel that like sometimes it doesn't work
or like a needed if, uh,
if it is having multiple dimension of data
Yes, sir, then automatically it'll be a two
dimensional data, yes.
If we have more than one, uh,
independent variable things, yes.
We'll, we'll practice that one also.
I'll show you some demonstration, don't worry.
Yeah, sure. So quick question.
So you have mentioned that we are predicting whether people
have surveyed or not based on the age, right?
Yes. So, but you are doing y versa
because X is considered as survival
and y is considered to be the age, right?
Mm-hmm. So isn't that the, uh,
the reverse that we are doing
Reverse, we can apply for the linear regression.
Also, value linear regression is what the, you know, we, uh,
trying to fit a line somewhere in the dataset
to predict some kind of output.
In case of logistic regression, it genuinely,
if you're having, uh, like binary dataset zero one,
then you try to fit the logistic regression.
So because I'm applying the linear regression
and trying to show you one of the example
for linear regression, I have taken the dependent variable
as why that is the age.
Okay? Now I'll, when I'll show you the logistic
regression, I'll do the reverse.
I'll put the survived as your, you know, dependent variable
and age with some other variables
and combine those as a independent variable.
Uh, Okay, but, uh, shouldn't survival be based on age?
That means, uh,
survival is dependent on age and not vice versa?
Yeah. That, that is what we
are actually trying to predict.
Now, suppose,
yeah. Hmm.
Yes. Suppose Now if I do this one prediction,
linear model do predict, okay?
Now here I'll actually give you some input as a H, okay?
Suppose I'm giving the input as h suppose 40.
Now if I print this one,
Check,
so this one,
So here you train model based on the survival, right?
Zero and one. Mm-hmm.
So you cannot pass prediction as in age,
because that is what you're predicting.
So we should be passing one or zero,
and Brenda is right here, like, uh
Oh. Oh,
Okay, okay, okay, okay.
Reverse. I did right?
Prediction, Uh, I'll give the input as
Because, um, x is like zero and
Link, Uh, YI have done the reverse just a second.
Exactly. We need to interchange the,
yeah, okay.
But then if we reverse it,
then linear regression won't work.
Linear regression won't work, right?
Then we have to go for logistic regression.
Okay, fine. Le I'll do something else then.
So let's just go with the P class based on age, what kind
of people has like opted for what kind of like tickets
Fine.
That what we can do? I, I guess, right?
Yes. Based on the age, what kind
of p class people has bought.
Yeah, If you're going
to fit a linear regression, it won't work.
It would be just logistic regression or any decision tree,
Right? Linear
Regression is very, Yeah, it needs some values, right?
Like multiple value should be, cannot
Be zero, and one, which defines a
Class like a P class is having multiple,
like one, three, something like
That. Okay?
Yeah. Fine. Let us split it and see,
Sir. Okay.
Huh? Let, like we have already done it.
Let's just go and see what is the,
like accuracy and all that.
We'll see prediction.
Okay?
Uh,
So we're having some kind of value
That is
in score one.
So you need to store the value before printing.
Sorry,
You haven't imported, uh, M-S-C-M-C, I heard,
Uh, it should, it shouldn't be directly as MSC.
Yeah,
No, this will back,
So we have calculated these two value.
Now it is coming somewhere around zero point or zero eight
and 0.37.
So, uh, if you do like a one minus this one, so
that is like a probable, you know, close
to the accuracy metrics that we are very much familiar with.
That is what we are having in this linear, uh,
linear regression, uh, fundamentals idea.
Now, let's just like do the river order.
That is that we are applying this logistic regression
Plan. So
For applying this logistic regression, um, let's just go
and we are having suppose,
Um, The, the survived as,
Okay, do The D
Here, okay?
Now we are having this one, this survival.
Let's just take this one as your, uh, dependent variable.
Uh, let's just take, uh, six
and age these two variable as your,
Uh, Independent variable.
Then we'll apply this, uh, logistic regression.
We'll try to find out based on the like, uh, you know,
gender as well as your age, what is the chances
of the survival that
Sir, uh, sir, sorry to interrupt.
Uh, one quick question here, sir.
So we have scaled the values no, for the age.
Is there any, uh, way
that we can get the original value from the scale values?
MinMax, scaler, we have used MinMax,
scaler we have used mm-hmm.
And we have, uh, scaled the values you
between minimum and maximum.
Is there any other way that we can from the scale values,
we get the original values?
No, You need to identify the previous value, the mean
and max value of that column.
Then you can like, uh, reverse the, you know, equation.
Then you can, uh, extract the mean max
value. Actually this one,
Uh, just, sorry,
no max
scale. So this
Is the function we are having basically
X max minus X mean, huh?
So X minus X mean divided by X max minus X mean.
So if you have this value, okay,
the X scale we are already having, okay, from this, you want
to calculate the XX.
Now, now this mean and max value, if you calculate like, uh,
take from the like a dataset
and if you replace these things,
you can easily calculate this X value as well.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Thank you.
Yeah. Okay.
So let's just do this division of this X and Y again.
Okay? So I'll do that. So in the dependent variable,
Okay,
I'll do df,
right?
Okay. In
The independent variable, I will take two dataset df,
Okay? And I
will take H
and six.
Double. Double,
Yeah, right?
So once it is done, okay, now I'll be going into one
of the things that is the x dot, you know, info.
If I see, I'll be able to check this ages
float, that is fine, but the six is objective type thing.
So I need to apply some kind of things like, uh, I need
to convert this, you know, uh, the six, uh,
parameter into some numeric value.
Now, let's just go one thing.
That is the, if I go
and do this thing extra head, okay, now
this female, female, male female, this,
we are having binary values.
So I can convert into zero one for this thing.
I can definitely go for level encoder,
Fine. So I'll
use the level encoder to encode this, uh,
you know, six parameter.
Then we'll be actually able
to apply any machine algorithms and all,
Okay?
Okay.
Right.
So from scale proposing level and quota, we are doing,
Ah, Hmm, now we are doing the free transform, the X.
Now, if I apply and run this command,
Pre-processing, not need it
start.
Now, if you see this, you know,
this level encoder transform the data into something where
one of the element that is a female has become zero in this
case, and male has become one in this case.
So I have a numeric value instead of a non numeric value.
Now I can go and apply the models and like algorithms
After this Level quota.
So I'll open this
notepad again, divide data,
Apply In coding.
That Is optional.
If You need, if you're dealing with some kind of value,
uh, that is repetitive, uh, categorical data,
then you need to apply.
So string value, okay? Then you need to apply the encoding.
Now, once you do the encoding, you can go
for model selection.
Then what you calling it? Optional.
Optional. As in suppose in the previous, you know,
our dataset, we didn't have that, uh, you know, uh,
categorical data where the string value is there.
So we didn't do the encoding, right? Okay.
But here we are dealing with some data
where like this encoding is needed.
We need to convert the, uh, string data into numeric data.
That is why this is optional.
If it is optional means if it is there, you have to apply
Focus. If it is
needed, you have to apply.
Otherwise, you would model, actually,
if I don't apply this encoding
and try to fit the model,
it will say basically we are expecting the numeric value,
but we are getting, uh, non-numeric value a rate.
Okay? So that is the idea.
If it is needed, you have to apply.
If it's not needed, you can skip it. Uh, just a second.
Hello? Yeah,
I call, okay?
Now we'll do model session and model feed.
Then you can do for the evaluation.
So how the model is working, and you can directly go
and do the prediction and model.
Okay? So let's just go and do this thing.
Now I have the data, everything set.
So I'll forward this form from a scale, learn,
do linear models, import,
logistic ion log model, logistic fit,
that's X and y.
Uh, okay, we need to also scaler X
from scale learn dot pre-processing,
put in max scaler scale, huh?
That we doing fine
From, from F. Okay,
Thank You.
Okay, it is done. Okay.
Uh, another thing I forgot to do
that is the splitting the data.
Um, scale, learn dot, uh,
model selection, input 20 split
scaled y, that is there.
Fine test size 0.2.
Once we are done, then we can go for this one.
Okay? So sequentially, if you see the checkbox,
plus I've loaded the data
for the ation load is already loaded.
Inspection, we had already done none values we have already
removed because the DF, we are using that, uh,
non value is removed.
Divide the data into depending
independent variables that we did.
We did the, you know, on this one, uh, that is, uh, y
as in survived, and X
as in your age, comma six.
Okay? That we did. Okay?
Now, once we have done that, we had scaled the data
that is the, like a age we had to scale.
We did the scaling. Now we have divided the data
into train test split.
We did that in coding. We have already done.
So somewhere you can do after the splitting out the data or
before even encoding is done.
Now, model selection, the model selection is done.
This one, the linear logic regression, we create the
objective of the model.
That is also done. Now, we'll do the model fitting.
Okay, the stretch.
So model fit, extreme wide range, that is the thing.
I just run it, okay?
Once it is done, the model is already trained,
I'll go further doing this evolution.
In this evolution, I can do what?
Y and let's go red equal to
log dot predict test.
And once we've done that, we can directly go
from scale learn dot
metrics, okay?
Import accuracy,
confusion metrics, okay?
Because this logistic regression works, you know, zero
and one, we can directly predict the, you know, accuracy
and the, so, you know, confusion matters.
These kind of things we can directly predict.
Let's go and run it. Okay?
So you are having some kind of value 0.7.
So you are having approximately 70% accuracy for the model
to predict based on the age
and your agenda, what is the chances of your survey rate?
Okay? So this is I think a HandsOn experience that I wanted
to share on, given like, uh, you know, live demonstration,
how step by step you can go
and like, uh, do your model, you know, creation, uh,
like creating your own machine learning
or deep learning model.
So basic idea is the workflow you need
to follow in this scenario only.
So loading up the data, inspect the data,
how it is you are dealing with the data
and all, what kind of values,
data, what is the size of the data.
If you, you can also go into the visualization aspects
and all, uh, then you'll be having the understandings, okay?
What kinda algorithms I should be able to actually apply.
Now, uh, I was forcing myself into like
applying the linear regression.
So I was actually forcing, uh, to take the, you know, y
or the dependent variable as your age.
And then when I'm going for the logistic location,
I was applying the what?
Now again, after that you deal
with the NN values, not a numbered values.
You omit those
or get rid of those in such a way, like, uh, either deletion
or filling those data.
Now you do one thing
that is the dividing the data into training.
Uh, sorry, uh, dependent and independent variables.
You do the scaling, you do the like, uh, uh, encoding.
If it is needed, then you can do
and go for the scaling of the data, okay?
And after that you can go for the model selection,
model fit, then go for the evolution and all.
So this is the basic, you know, flow.
Whenever you are applying any machine learning
or deep learning algorithm, that is the flow actually, uh,
as a, like a skeleton you can use.
Okay? I hope, uh,
I'll conclude the class today here only,
Yeah. Yes sir.
A few questions here, sir. Yeah, please do.
And one request also, sir.
So, uh, what is, uh, label encoder in place of, uh,
hot encoding so we can apply here.
Hot encoding also known.
So what is the difference between labeling?
Yeah, or we'll decide that uh, we have
to apply label encoding or hot encoders.
Hmm, a good question.
Actually, one hot encoder we are having
and we are having level encoder, okay?
Now suppose no,
in this one level encoder does what?
Suppose in a column
or feature, suppose you are having some
model of the car.
So that is the attribute you're dealing with. In this one.
There are 10, okay?
Types of cars are there, suppose
we are having different features there, okay?
Trunks is there. Then you are having, uh,
suppose I 10, I 20, something like that.
So multiple variables are there for your, you know,
that particular feature.
And these are important suppose
for your model training and all.
You can get rid of this one.
Now, if you apply this level in code at what it'll do
the suppose in that dataset,
dataset will have same number
of feature
features as in column won't change, okay?
And each of this, you know,
swift suppose will be encoded with zero.
Now FFR will be encoded with one.
Now this berlino will be encoded by two, okay? And so on.
Now, the problem is when you apply this level in quota,
you are having multiple, you know, uh, categories.
Suppose thousands of data is there
and these 10 cards are repeated.
Now, Some of the value is zero, some
of the value will be nine, 10, something like that.
In that way, when you apply the models algorithm,
it creates some biasness.
So somewhere you actually, um, applying the model
and you are multiplying the France car with one
and suppose, uh, late strength, suppose there's one car
that is also, it came later for the calculation.
Suppose there's value is suppose nine.
So it will have some emphasis bias business on the data
that is the level encoder for you.
So if you're having binary, even maybe binary data,
so 0, 1, 2, 0, 1, you can directly go for the level encoder.
You're not having, uh, like too much categorical, uh, data.
So in this one, in this example, okay, we had the age
that is the male and female only.
Okay? We had only male
Age, Sorry, male sex, that is male and female only.
So we applied the level and quota.
So we converted into zero one only, no issue.
Now, if This category data instead, uh, you know, sex
or gender, we had like a data where hundreds of like tens
of, you know, uh, categorical
data, which are getting repeated.
So we cannot apply this level in quota bin will
be there for those things.
We apply this thing that is the one hot end code.
Now this do what?
Yeah, I
Think cross question. Okay,
so this does what along with the dataset, you know,
dataset is something like that. Dataset. Suppose
The, you know, um, uh, Production year,
Suppose This is the column you're dealing
with production year,
Okay? Uh, kilometers,
okay? Uh,
Then you are having other sets of data.
Suppose that is, uh, develop control, so or ev
Uh, ev slash petrol
Slash diesel.
So This kind attribute along with having model
Of The card, then having the price, these kind
of features you're dealing with.
Now, this was the data before applying the encoder.
And in this model, okay, card models, okay, this,
you wanted to apply some kinda this encoder method.
Now applying this level encoder, what happens?
This, all of the data remains same,
except this model, no, this model.
Now it'll be changed with swift,
Okay?
Then ano, Then frogs,
okay?
Then suppose other I trend I 20,
Then Suppose more cars.
Okay? All
two, okay?
Then the price will be there. Now what is happening?
Instead of one column, it'll have multiple columns, fine.
Now, in each of the dataset, what will happen, everything
where the swift model was there, that will be,
you know, quoted as one
or just, let's take an example from male, female only
for one, we had the age
and we had the sex, okay?
This will be replaced by age, sex dot
male six dot,
okay, fort it.
This will be our new dataset Instead of two,
we'll have three columns.
Now, in this one, if I see the dataset, we had 38 female.
So in this one we'll have 38.
In this six male, that will become zero.
And in the female it'll become one.
Next column, we are having 35 females, we'll have 35
as male, as zero female as one.
Next we are having 54 male, so we'll have 54.
This column remain same.
This one will become one, this will become zero.
So what is happening if you have multiple columns, okay?
After that also supports, uh, transgender,
was there something like that, this column would've become
0, 0, 0, something like that.
So this is a difference between the level and code one
or 10 30, if it happen multiple columns, okay?
So multiple, you know, categorical data, then you can go
for the 100 coda,
but the dimension of the data increases by many fold.
That is the 100 coda.
And in case of label and coda, if you're having lower number
of categorical data, you apply the label in Coda.
Yes. I hope you understood the problem, right?
Yeah. Yes sir. Thank you. It was great explanations. Yeah.
And so one request also, sir, uh, can we also going forward,
not right now, almost at the end,
can we also cover deployment of the models?
So how to deploy a model in production, deploy?
Is there deploy? Is there
No deployment?
Deployment in production, sir?
Deployment and production will try, actually I'll try
to do something like, uh, you know,
dockerizing the application and deploy.
Yes, Something like that will try to do that.
Yeah, it'll be very helpful
because deployment is also important parts.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. One, one feedback, sir,
today's session was really great.
It was very insightful and very easily we could understand.
Yes, thank you. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
Thank you, sir. Yeah, actually this is
the like way of teaching.
I try to do more on the hands-on experience
and basically in offline classes, what we do, uh, actually
what I do, I actually ask the students
to bring their laptops and all, and I do,
and they do kind of, we both learn together.
Actually I'm doing some mistakes.
They are actually solving it for me. Exactly. They're
The same thing.
Yeah. When you are doing, we are doing it, uh, parallel
with our collab nos.
So it's very useful. You could understand it very easily.
Then the PPTs,
Yeah, obviously this is, this is the best way
to learn in my opinion, of course, uh, people, uh,
have a different opinion in this cases.
Okay? Uh, so I think that is also for two days,
afternoon season, this one will have, uh, something to deal
with the Titan data set.
You'll be applying the same models, uh, linear integration,
logistic education, and uh, try to actually do
and evaluate, uh, practice this thing.
That is what I want you to do.
Any more questions and sessions?
Sir? I have one question.
Uh, sir, sir, the assignment, which happened like last,
last assignment on December.
Mm-hmm. So can we have like,
will we have similar options again?
Like I actually missed, uh, submitting
that one during that frame. I Oh,
The, was that graded lab
or was like normal? The graded one.
Huh? Normal, sir. It is fine. I missed the graded one.
Uh, okay. That is one of the problem,
like the deadline was seven days.
I, I can do one thing, like based on some, like extra seven,
something like that I can give you later.
Okay. That you can like compile
and perform, uh, then some kind of like, uh,
not the full mark, but the fraction
of the marks I can give you for that one.
Could I email you, sir? Uh, yeah, please.
I'll Email you also, uh,
if you see, I'll show you again.
That is the systems lab.
Uh, so today's, uh, lab session, the afternoon,
we'll have the same thing or, uh,
it'll have some more, some more added to this. No,
No, this thing only I think like a, um, multiple people,
uh, who doesn't have like exposure to this one, they will,
uh, actually have that time to learn and adapt.
Yeah. So, uh, you see the component for this, you know,
grading policy, but 10 assignments based on 10.
Uh, this, uh, you know, each of the labs will be whatever
with the, as assignments you're submitting four marks they,
that they carry, but the grade lab, each
of the grade lab carries 15 marks.
So you shouldn't miss this one.
That is the, uh, ideal, fundamental idea is that
Yes, sir. So can I
like, uh,
submit again if possible, maybe fraction as
I, I don't think like that,
that will be the discrepancy towards the like other
candidate who has done true, true,
I Understand hard work within the timeline
and they have maintained the, you know, uh, sanctity
that's the local one of the thing.
But I can do what, uh, you mail me, I'll give you some kind
of assignments and all, uh, that you can submit
and present, uh, the work,
and I can give you some fraction of the mark
for this grade level one.
Sure, sure. Sir, can you share your email Id?
Uh, yeah, I'll write it here. You just note it down, fine.
Okay, sir? Yeah, yeah.
Answer classroom notes like we have not got yet any now,
Uh, I always share, uh, to the TAs,
they usually upload these things.
I'll ask him again or heard again
and I'll see what is the, like a problem that is, uh,
they're, they're facing.
Is it visible? Yeah. Yeah, it's visible.
It's mentioned the classroom notes, 5% mask carries here.
Do we have to write some classroom notes or something?
I was asking that the, uh,
The idea initially I said, uh, that is, uh,
whatever the lab says, you are actually doing the, you know,
you compile all of these things together
and some of the people, if they're like new when they want
to learn this thing and like,
but just seeing your, you know, entire, you know,
one single document, they'll be able to understand, okay,
this is the way I should be
learning this, you know, subject.
So The basic idea
of the simplest way you can compile all
of the lab assignments into one
and you can create a class, uh, class notebook, okay?
And if you actually do some efforts
and all you can apply, uh, like put mode of volume contains
and all that, that will become much more better.
Okay, sir, when are we
Supposed to submit then? Uh,
that is the, like in the, like
during the interim you submit, I'll give you some end,
like a time that is not like a regular thing.
Every class and everything ends.
Then you'll have some, like a time like buffer time then
that you can compile and send it.
Okay, sir? So For, for today's assignment, uh,
for the evening, uh, lab session,
you'll be uploading a assignment for that, sir.
Yeah, it'll be shared in the afternoon itself.
I think within 30 minutes I'll share.
Okay, sir. Thank you. Yeah.
Uh, sir, one question regarding this classroom notes.
So let's say I'm noting down some important TD points, uh,
for today's session.
Mm-hmm. So if I, if I include the same in the document,
that's enough, right?
So we don't need to include the code
and all that stuff, right?
That is, that is all new. Like whatever way you are
filling this, you know, data should be compiled
and the content should be compiled.
That is on you, that is your choice
because you are the author, you are having that freedom.
Okay, sir. Got it. One last thing.
Yes. When is the next grade assignment?
Next grade assignment?
Uh, uh, this Monday we are having one season. Okay.
And, uh, after next Monday,
that will be our, uh, just a second.
This is our, I think
this is our fourth lab technically.
So fifth, sixth. So fifth assignment or fifth.
Uh, this thing will be done on the Monday.
So technically if we see, uh, next to next, uh,
week, we'll have a session.
Then after that we'll have a, no, this one, let me sell you
Submitted This.
Okay. 17th, uh, January, we'll have next grade lab.
Okay, 17th, January.
So far we have submitted one
For each of the believe, uh, uh, this, uh, you know,
sessions, you are having some tasks and all.
Okay? Except the first one. Okay.
So for this, uh, state speech, uh, search, uh, sorry, uh,
searching techniques and all, you have done
that concern satisfaction, probably you have done that.
Two, I think you have already completed.
Uh, excuse me, sir. Yeah,
Sir. Uh, the next
graded lab assignment, we,
we'll have the same timeline
as the previous one, right? One week,
Yeah. Yes. Seven days of
time will be there.
Yes, that will be it.
One more question I wanted to ask you is that this, uh,
state space search is there, right, sir?
So, uh, if you look at control engineering, uh, um,
multiple input, multiple output.
So are there any relation between this, uh,
reinforcement learning and the conventional con control
engineering approaches, or, uh, how does it work?
Yeah, that, that I think like will be discussed in the
machine learning group planning aspects.
So not here the theoretical side, I think like, uh,
will discuss much better than me.
Okay, sir. Thanks. Yeah.
Okay. Then I'm closing the session, right?
Yeah. Thank you, sir. Thank sir. Thank you, sir. Yeah,
Have a good day.
Thank you, sir. Thank you. Thank.